---
toc: true
layout: post
description: How to move on from datasets
comments: true
categories: [markdown]
title: Artificial babies on the internet
---

The most powerful machine learning models train on a lot of data. Where is this data from? It usually is from the internet and is then
filtered, labeled and curated by humans.  Assuming all data that current machine learning models are trained on is in some form available on the internet, you might need to ask for it on a specific forum, though. A major way forward towards more intelligent machines is to think about ways to allow ML models to
use the internet themselves to learn. This isn’t an access to the "real world", but is much less expensive than having a robot incarnation of 
an ML model roll around in our 3-dimensional world. Is this 3-dimensional world as important as we think, anyways? Even we spend a pretty fat share of our time interacting with the internet, even though our interfaces to the internet are pretty bad. Compare how much data bandwidth your body has to interact with the world with the share of it that can be used to interact with the internet.

A way to think about an ML model that learns from the internet directly is to look at it as a baby that is left to live on the internet. I would like to describe a three-step learning curriculum such a model might go through and relate it to human babies to give inspiration for how such a model would learn. 

At first it will just experience whatever random things it comes across: articles, terms of service, spam, pictures of random noise, ingredient lists. Just like a small baby can't choose what it will listen its parents discuss about or what it sees when it is carried around. 

In the second step preferences develop for what kind of data to consume. The model will look for data it can incorporate easily, but does not know yet, especially data that helps it understand the world better. It might look at Simple Wikipedia entries, simple images or listen to repetitive music. Similar to a baby that prefers to look into faces over looking into the sky.

The last stage of progress is for the model to interact with the internet and its human users to learn by interaction.
In this last stage I imagine the model to participate in forum discussions, or tweet. The equivalent in humans is to be able to interact with the environment at first by noises or gestures for example, later using language.

While I describe the stages as if they were clearly separated, they are of course not. Just like for babies. A model that is able to learn from interaction will likely still be able to learn something from only consuming content. 

The purpose of this post is to draw a parallel between the online world and our physical world and to inspire more people to think about ML models as babies on the web, since I really believe that progress can be made if we go forward from our current dataset-centric focus in the machine learning community.

